---
layout: unify-blog-post
title: "JCS Progress Report"
author: sandy
post-type: regular
list-image: /public/img/blog/sandy/img/site-map-with-callouts.jpg
social-images: /public/img/blog/sandy/img/site-map-with-callouts.jpg
comments: true
facebook: true
hypothesis: true
category: jcs
tags: progress
---

# December 2018 Update

All preliminary steps for construction of Jalan Cinta Sanctuary have
been completed – yay! Now we are poised to begin villa construction as
our next phase. Will you join with us?

Take a look through our <a target="_blank" href="/mobile/">flipbook</a>,
offering a short summary of Jalan Cinta Sanctuary and contact us to find out more.

![](/public/img/blog/sandy/img/site-map-with-callouts.jpg)

Below is a summary of items to date:

##  All Building Permits Obtained

It was an interesting process watching the legal team go through design
and development hoops, reviews and redrafts, until finally the all clear
was given and our building permit (what they call an IMB in Indonesia)
was obtained.

##  Clearing the Way

As the Sanctuary is located a little way off the road and accessed via a
3 meter wide driveway, one of the first things that needed to happen was
to create room for this driveway. This meant our beautiful local
families demolished their ancient kitchen that was across the path of
the drvieway and reconstructed it on a different section of their land.

{% comment %}
![](/public/img/blog/sandy/img/fencing.jpg)
{% endcomment %}

## Time for a Ceremony

In typical Bali fashion, before any building can begin we ask permission
from the gods. Representatives from the local village, our local family
and the manggku (preist) joined with us one afternoon to bless the land
and project.

![](/public/img/blog/sandy/img/blessing.jpg)

## Building a Bridge

It still makes me laugh even today that our first step in building was
the development of a small bridge over the local waterway that supplies
water to the rice farmers in the area. As we like to say, the first
thing we needed to do was “build a bridge and get over it”.

![](/public/img/blog/sandy/img/bridge.jpg)

## Limestone Driveway Base

Next step was placement of a limestone base for the driveway. Or, as a
friend shared, what looks like an, ‘oatmeal’ driveway into the
Sanctuary.

![](/public/img/blog/sandy/img/driveway.jpg)

## Fencing

Fencing the boundary was next! While we have a traditional ‘walled’
fence for the villa section to ensure privacy, the rest of the property
has wire panel fencing which will foster a natural look and feel when
draped in passion fruit vines.

![](/public/img/blog/sandy/img/boundary-fence.jpg)

## Clearing and Digging a Well

Next we cleared the block and dug our deep water well; called a
‘sumor boar’ in Bali.

![](/public/img/blog/sandy/img/clearing.jpg)

![](/public/img/blog/sandy/img/clearing2.jpg)

![](/public/img/blog/sandy/img/clearing3.jpg)

## First Building Constructed

For the first building we constructed the ‘technicians’ rooms, which
include: water tank, electrical panelling, storage room, maintenance
room and security room. This L shaped building is located on the boarder
of the property.

We elected to put a second story on this building, which will house 2 x
backpacker style accommodation options. These rooms will allow us to
cater to all budgets for accommodation.

![](/public/img/blog/sandy/img/service-room-day.jpg)

![](/public/img/blog/sandy/img/service-room-night.jpg)

## Next Step, Villas!

Join us and become part of this supportive community of friends.

![](/public/img/blog/sandy/img/villa-from-garden2.jpg)

